You got to think of the recordables as
being pretty dumb. You know, they're
just like in the case of a message, it's
literally just a title and content.
That's it. They have no connection to
the outside world. You can build
entirely new features that should take
months in like a week, 2 weeks. We've
been running this architecture for 10
years. This is recordables place where
the 37 signals team share some of the
technical work behind Base Camp, and
some of our other opensource projects.
I'm Kimberly from the product team
joined by Fernando who's helping out
with some of the technical aspects of
today's discussion and this one we're
excited to kick off this series with an
episode about recordables. To do that we
have principal programmer Jeffrey Hardy
with us today. Jeffrey, thanks for being
here.
>> Hey, thank you. This is great.
>> Before we get started, I know this is a
topic people really want to hear about,
but tell us a little bit about you and
what you do here at 37 Signals and how
long you've been here. You've been here
for a while. Yeah, I've I've been at 37
Signals for 18 years. So, I've worked on
all our products, all versions of Base
Camp, including the most recent version
and Hay and everything we've done. It's
uh it's been a really great place to
spend 18 years and have the advantage of
seeing the evolution of of Base Camp
through all these different versions.
Um, so yeah, I pro I work on the product
team.
>> Amazing. Well, we know people want to
hear about recordables. We're excited to
kick off this new series where we're
sharing some of the behind the scenes
stuff with this episode. And before we
dive in, I think I have to ask kind of
the obvious question. As the
non-technical person here, I always hear
people talking about about recordings
and recordables. Will you just kind of
break that down? What does that even
mean before we deep dive into the topic?
>> Right. It's a little bit abstract.
Recordings and recordables and buckets
and and what is this? So in Base Camp
pretty much all content things like
documents, messages, comments, uploads,
these are modeled as a a pattern we use
called um a delegated type. And so in
the delegated type pattern which comes
from Rails, you have a primary table. In
our case, it's recordings and recordings
reference recordables. And the
recordables are like the concrete types.
A recordable would be a message, a
comment, a document, or an upload. And
so with this pattern, we're able to
model all the various content in Basec
Camp, which is essentially all the same.
There's a bunch of advantages to
treating all that content in the same
way. And Basec Camp's architecture like
hinges on this concept. And it's that,
you know, our third iteration of Base
Camp. We're on we we we call um the
version of base camp the internal
version is three. We call that the
chassis like the architecture on which
it's built. It's our third attempt.
And so when building the third version
we came up with this pattern that we use
and it's called a it's called a
delegated type which I know doesn't make
a lot of sense. What is that what does
that mean? But I'll I can describe the
the the sort of hierarchy.
So you have recordings and this is a
table of records that stores all the
metadata and common information between
recordable types like messages and
documents and uploads.
But it doesn't have any specific
information. It doesn't know like the
title of a message or the content of a
message
>> or the location of a file or other
things.
>> It delegates that that knowledge to
other records. Those records have their
own tables in the database. Messages,
documents, uploads, comments, all
separate tables.
And the advantage here is that you have
your your single recordings table that
delegates its types. Can be lean and
tight. It only has metadata. It has
references to recordables. So it has a
recordable ID and a recordable type. It
has timestamps. It has a creator ID. It
has tiny little columns, no text
columns, nothing big and heavy. And so
all of the specific information is
contained in the recordable tables which
can vary. So to back up a little bit in
Rails and in in software architecture
patterns in general that there are a few
ways to handle this idea of like things
are mostly the same but they're kind of
different and how do you account for the
differences without repeating yourself?
And one common way is a pattern is
called single table inheritance. You
have a database table and you have
subtypes that also use that same table
you know to that's where you would have
your shared metadata the things you have
in common. And then you know comments
might have a body and messages also have
a body and so you're like great I have a
body column I can use the same table to
store these. I just have to keep the
type in the table. Is this a message
row? Is this a comment row? That works
good for things that are super similar,
like maybe messages and comments, but
like what about things like events? They
have a starts at and an ends at column.
Now you got to add those to the main
single table, right? And so the table
keeps getting bigger widthwise. It has
to have all the different kinds of
columns that you might have for any
type. And adding a new type means you
have to modify that single table. and
that table gets really really big. It's
just sort of intrinsic to to having a
single table that does that. The bigger
the table is, the harder and slower it
is to migrate. So that's like one way to
do it. Another way is to have like just
different tables for everything. Um and
then you take the things that are the
same and instead of belonging to a
specific kind of record like uh lots of
things for example can be commented on
in a system like Basecamp.
So you might have a documents table and
you might have an uploads table and a
messages table and you you want comments
in all these things. So the comments
table could instead of belonging to a
you know having a reference to a a
specific thing like you know having a
document ID or an upload ID you know or
a message ID. It can belong to a
polymorphic type. It can store you know
a commentable ID and a commentable type.
And so now you get you know this is
called like polymorphic relationships.
That's another way to model this sort of
everything is the same but slightly
different. we need to differentiate
and the delegated type pattern is
neither of these but it's similar and
it's something that we you know uh I I
think we pioneered it at base camp maybe
some other really smart people have come
up with this but it's possible they
haven't um but that's what I can talk
about today is like how this system
works it's it's um it's a really neat
system and it's what's enabled us to to
scale Base Camp and to use the same
version of the chassis of Base Camp
version 3 for multiple subsequent
versions without having to do a rewrite.
>> Yeah. So, just to clarify, we're
currently working on Base Camp 5. We
said that, but we're building it on the
same platform as three was built and
four was built and that is because of
this recordable situation.
>> Yeah. I mean, the main reason we made
other versions of Base Camp was because
they become too difficult to work with.
they're kind of rigid and there's, you
know, we also want to introduce new
features or sort of take a different
have a different take on how we do
something and that's hard to change, you
know, when existing customers are using
it. But it's also been good to like sort
of have a blank slate and start over
because you don't have all this baggage,
this big ship that's hard to turn
around. Well, using this uh delegated
type recording recordables pattern has
made the ship less big,
>> you know, like it's it's um I was
talking about single table inheritance
and how you've constantly got to modify
that single table and migrate it every
time you want to add a new kind of you
know thing. You don't have that with the
delegated type recordable pattern.
Your recordings table basically never
changes. you just add new types which
are their own fresh tables. And so
there's no penalty to adding a new type
deciding that like you want to add
comments or messages or documents or any
other thing that we can imagine. You
know, you just make a new table and
you'll have new recording rows that
reference it, but you don't have to
modify recordings. So it's been much
easier to scale than other versions of
Base Camp. And consequently, we don't
start hating, you know, like the effort
of doing a small thing. You want to be
able to iterate on your product easily
and you know I think that in the past
making a new version of Base Camp was
the the best way to do that you know
brand new and we we just haven't felt
that pain with the with the version
three architecture and it owes entirely
to this recordings recordable pattern.
Now there are a few things about that
like it's not just the delegated type.
So, for those that don't know, delegated
type, it's it's available in Rails. The
documentation in, you know, um, in the
Rails docs is pretty good, but I think a
lot of people don't quite understand
like when they would use it or like why
to use it. So, hopefully we can like
clarify that today. Um, but there are a
few other patterns that we use, you
know, in addition to the de delegated
type with recordings that make this
content system possible.
One is that the recordables themselves,
we treat them as immutable.
So we don't modify them in place. We
create new ones.
And another thing that we do is the
recordings are organized in a tree like
a parent child relationship. So for I'll
go back to the messages example because
it's the most intuitive. We have a
message board and a message board's
children are messages and a messages
children are comments and a comments
children are like attachments if you've
uploaded a file to your comment or you
know and so like
>> what about a boost would a boost be a
child? No, boosts are different. Boosts
actually use that other pattern I was
describing uh called polymorphic
relationships where a boost belongs to a
boostable thing. And that's because we
want to boost things that aren't
necessarily recordings.
>> You might want to boost like a status
notification or an event. Events are
another key part of the pattern. So that
that helps me tie into events. So we
have the delegated type recording
recordable pattern. We have the
arrangement of recordings as a tree.
We have immutable recordables and then
we have an events system and the events
system can tie a recording to a
recordable at a particular moment in
time.
And so this is why so the the
recordables themselves are immutable. So
we never change them, but we can move
the pointers to them around.
And
at any given time, a recording only
points to one recordable.
But if you want to have a history of
like what are all the recording
recordables that it ever pointed to, we
track that in an event model. The event
has a cop has a reference to the
recording and it has a reference to a
recordable. This means we can like look
at the history of a recording and see
all of its changes and you know look at
that recordable that is immutable at any
moment in time to see how it looked.
>> Yeah. Here's a good example here.
>> Yes. Yes. I know what you're going to
going to show here. This is great.
>> Do you want to walk us through this?
>> Yes. So, this is a document in Base Camp
and what enables this but we have the
change log here and what enables this is
the this combination of immutable
recordables and events. So, what you're
seeing here in this history of changes
is really a listing of all the events
for this particular recording.
And so where you see like you know saved
a change to this document and you can
say see what changed what we're able to
do is find the document recordable
instance at that moment in time. This is
how it looked. This is what its content
was and compare it to the previous
version. And we can only do that because
we didn't update the document in place.
We created a new one. Now we can compare
version A to version B. And you'll see
there's a button there like make this
the current version. When you click that
button, all we're going to do is update
the recording record to point to this
version of the document instead of the
current version.
>> So recordings are not immutable.
>> No, recordings are fully mutable. We
change them. It's the recordables, the
type that we delegate to.
>> But what are we changing in a recording?
>> We're only changing the pointer
reference to the recordable, right?
>> There are a few other things that can
change like one is its time stamp. Like
it's updated at time stamp,
>> of course. Mhm.
>> Right. Or if um most thing other things
won't change. We we store a color value
on the recording so you can change its
color, you know, um presentational
things like that.
>> But
>> Oh, that makes sense.
>> Yeah, you're right. The the recording is
mutable, but many things about it don't
change. All of the meat, like all of the
action is in the recordables themselves.
And and you mentioned like for example a
document can have comments. And so
the logic I have in my mind here is I
want to get to this document. I have the
recording. The recording has a reference
to the recordable document. when I fetch
that recordable that document which is a
recordable uh is are the reference to
its children are the references to its
children recordings.
Yeah. So it's only the recordings that
have children. So you look up a
recording by primary key and then you
that would be the ID that you see in the
URL
and then you ask for its recordable. And
the thing is you don't care often. You
don't care what kind of recordable it
is.
>> Um if it's a document or a message. When
you do care, the pattern that Rails
exposes lets you ask for that type of
recordable by name. So if you know you
want a document, it's you're expecting a
document to be the recordable. You
wouldn't just ask for the recordable,
the generic recordable. You would say
recording.cument
or recording comment. Another
convenience that Rails' delegated type
provides is the ability to query like
and filter for the type of recordable
the type of delegated type. So you would
say recordings domes messages would only
return recordings that have a type of
message or recordings comments would
only return recordings that have a type
of comment. And if I do like recordings
messages
children, I would get back an array of
recordings.
>> Yes, that were all that were messages,
>> right?
>> No, no, no. The the children of
messages, let's say comments.
>> Yes.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. You're always going to get
recordings. So the children and the
parent, they're always recordings.
>> Oh,
>> so yeah, this is a good point to clarify
something or No,
>> I I kind of can. Yeah, I can show this.
Um it might help to see Yeah. how the
code is organized. Let me share my
screen. So, here I'm on my Mac. I have
been using Omari on a Framework 13
laptop, but my camera is not working
great right now. Not it's probably
configuration. I don't want to say
anything bad about Framework because
it's an excellent device, but I I didn't
want to risk it for this this
presentation yet. But, okay. So, this is
the recording class in Base Camp. So you
know what you're seeing is a whole bunch
of concerns. Basically you see there's
very little like this is a for you know
the main model in base camp is 42 lines
long. It's kind of incredible but like
you can see a few things immediately
that are important about a recording. It
belongs to a bucket and I'll talk about
I can just introduce the bucket briefly.
The bucket is just a container for
recordings. Buckets are how we control
access in basecamp. So you have buckets
have accesses. You add people to a
bucket. If you can have access to the
bucket, you can see all the recordings
that are in the bucket. Buckets are also
a delegated type. A kind of bucket is a
project, a template, a ping. Anything
that can contain a distinct set of
recordings
>> is is a bucket.
>> So is a bucket a recordable?
>> No, a bucket is a delegated type which
creates a bucketable. So you have the
recordable is just the name we've given
to the target of the delegated type
right. So in hey we use the same pattern
except in hey we've called them entries.
Entry has an delegated type which we've
named entryable and in hey those are
things like messages, replies, notes on
a message and these represent emails. So
the naming can be whatever you want but
the the pattern is the same. So buckets
have bucketables. Bucket is the thing
that delegates to a bucketable.
>> Oh, okay. Perfect.
>> A recording is a thing that delegates to
a recordable and in hey an entry
delegates to an entryable
>> and so a bucketable can be a recordable
depending on the context, right?
>> I mean technically, but no, you wouldn't
do that, right? Like bucketable would be
a different thing. Um but there's no
reason. They're just classes. They can
reference any kind of thing they want.
But we want all of our recordables to
behave the same like or have a similar
interface. And you would want that of
all the types you intended to delegate
to. Right. So you want all bucket-like
things to quack but like buckets
>> the bucket buckets.
>> Yeah. Right. like as containers of
recordings in this case or in hey as
things that are like email messages or
in base camp recordables things that are
like our our chunks of content documents
messages uploads you know so mixing the
types while it would be technically
possible would be kind of confusing
right so the thing I want to point out
here in the recording class is right
here this little inclusion of a Ruby
module called recordables and I have
that up here. This is what the
recordables concern looks like. And
right here on line five, this is what
does all this work. So we say
imagine that this is mixed into
recording. So we say that recording has
a delegated type called recordable. All
the types that it can have are named in
this constant which
uh is in another file which I'll show
you later. Um and and like this does all
of the work, right? And so these are by
mixing this into recording like these
are all the things that a recording can
can do. But you see this is also a
really small file. It's like a 100 lines
long. Um it it doesn't do a whole lot.
It doesn't even include a lot of like
other behavior. So like where does all
this come from? And like so this is sort
of the key. So this is the recordable
class. This is what every individual
recordable class like a message, a
comment or whatever includes and this is
where all the types are defined. So all
of these like attachment, an autol
image, a bulletin message, a bulletin
link, all the chat things like a chat,
everything from a chat line to a chat
transcript, a cloud file, a comment, a
doc, a document, a door, all of these
things are recordables. So like every
one of these content types, which is
tons, are are all modeled in the same
way as far as recordings and recordables
go. And then all of the things that
recordables
have in common are listed here. So I'll
scroll down a bit. Like these are things
that they can do. You know, are they
autosubscribable? Are they subscribable
in general? So this is where the type
that we delegate to defines its
capabilities.
So by default no recordables are
subscribable. But if we go to like a
document and we look like oh it it
enables subscribable here it includes
the recordable class the recordable
mixin and now it overrides the
subscribable method to say yes I can be
subscribed to I can be exported I can be
commented on. I'm autoositioned when I'm
placed inside a list. So all of these
things you can kind of like respondable
backlinking like when uh one recording
references another we can create a link
to that so you can navigate it easy in
base camp if something's copyable or
movable. Um if it's recurable or
recurring if it repeats you know um
these are things that you can ask of any
kind of recordable.
>> Jeeoff is there something in here like
we have public links that we can make.
Is that part of this? Yeah, it probably
would be as like publishable.
>> Publishable.
>> Yeah,
>> publicly linkable.
>> Looking for it,
>> right? You know, is it memorizable? Um,
but I think
do we have
I think all recordings we've defined as
are publishable. So, we tend to list
only the things that might need to vary,
right? So if if some things are
commentable but some things aren't then
then we define like a commentable
capability and let subcl let other
recordable types define it override it.
You can see some of our like comments
here too like there's life cycle events
that happen. A a recordable is recorded
meaning we've created a recording that
references this recordable. And often
you have specific behavior that isn't
going to apply um unless you uh it only
applies to specific types, right? Like
you might want to do something with a
comment being recorded that you wouldn't
want to do when a document is recorded.
And so this is one of the challenges of
the the delegated type and type pattern
in general is that how do you where do
you stick that specific behavior? you're
mostly working with the, you know, your
type that does the delegating, the
recording, but like you got specific
behavior that should only apply to like
certain recordable types. And in that
case, we we pass in the context of the
recording because recordables
themselves, they don't know, they don't
belong to any particular recording. They
can be referenced by many recordings.
And in fact, that's how copying works,
right? Right. And that's how we make
copying really efficient. Instead of
like actually copying the content of a
message, we just create a new recording
row and point to the same message
recordable that already exists. We don't
need to copy it at all. And it's super
fast and storage efficient for that
reason. But it means that a message
doesn't know it doesn't have any
particular recording that owns it. It's
own it can be owned by many or none. Um
and so sometimes when you need to work
with a recording we we pass it in. So
here we can say like you know the
comment reads overwrite to perform
recordable specific actions after making
a recording. So comment uses this to
compose its title based on the parent of
its recording.
Right? So it that's the whole purpose of
buckets. Then recordables have no
understanding of access control. So if
you're in a private project, you have
your own document there and you want to
copy it over to a public like it's just
referencing the same recordable. The
recordable change there's no change in
access to that recordable because access
goes through the bucket.
>> Yes.
>> Right. They're sort of orthogonal in
that sense though. Like it's more that
like the the
the record the recordable is it doesn't
even need to like we don't even keep
things like timestamps on our recordable
records because they're just chunks of
content.
>> Yes.
>> You know what I mean? Some recordables
don't even have any any row like any
columns,
>> right? They're just a table that has an
ID. Like it has what you know their rows
just have an ID. They sort of act as a
placeholder if they don't have any
distinct content to store
>> or they might just have a title,
>> you know,
>> right? That makes sense. So they can be
as small or as large as they need to be.
>> They can be Yeah, they could be as small
or as large as they need to be. And you
get to modify them without having to
modify all of the recordings, which is
becomes the big table, the table with
billions and billions of rows.
>> Right.
This is I know it's a little abstract,
right? Even when I'm showing the code,
it's kind of like
>> No, no, no. I think it makes perfect
sense. You have the recordings which
themselves are uh just fixed point uh
they're they're the latest uh pointer to
a recordable.
>> Yes, they reference
>> usually the latest version.
>> Yeah, usually. And then however if you
needed to go through the history of how
that recording got to a certain
recordable you go to the events table
right
>> yes you ask the recording for its events
and you could go over each event and say
what was your recordable when this event
was created. Now for example if I'm in a
project how what is the what is the the
algorithm what are the steps if I'm
opening like a tool and I want to see
the the the messages
right so the bucket has recordings the
bucket is the project you know a bucket
delegates its type you know buckets are
just things that have recordings and so
if you were in a project we would be
looking for buckets that have a type of
project and then from the bucket record
You can ask a bucket for all of its
recordings. You would want to filter
those recordings to just those that are
messages. So your call would look like
bucket
recordings messages. Now you're going to
get a list of recordings that all point
to message recordables.
Right? So in Base Camp, the messages
themselves because of the tree structure
are owned by a a message board. So every
bucket has one or more message every
project bucket has one or more message
boards. You would find a message board
bucket.recordings.mssageboards.first.
This would give you a recording of type
message board and you would ask for its
children. Now in Basecamp the only
children of a message board are going to
be messages but you could have different
types. So you would want to filter that
down and say like just show me the
messages. So you would say message
board, your message board recording, you
would say children do messages. Now
you'll only get its children that have a
type of message. Still recordings, it's
recordings all the way down. When you
finally get to the message recording
that you want, you would ask for the
recordable. That's where the title is
and where the content is and where
other, you know, like message specific
things are.
>> So how how do you enforce that? I I'm
coming from a very compilery part of the
programming world and all I'm hearing is
like let's make a message board hold
pings and chats and
>> right
you don't enforce it right like there's
no method to enforce that it's it's just
how you do it it's I guess you could say
it's convention like you know um but but
and that's why the the conveniences that
delegated type provides like the ability
to filter on type are useful probably
wouldn't want to just ask for like any
child, right? Because it could contain
mixed types. Let's think about um in
base camp you have documents, but you
can have Google documents and uploads
and all of these go into a container, a
parent that we call a vault. A vault is
a thing that holds document-like things.
So it wouldn't you wouldn't want to just
you know if you ask a vault for its
documents, you're only going to get
documents. So there is an instance where
you do just want to ask for children
like all of the things that this might
contain you you want the mixed result.
So this actually brings me to another
cool thing like this is an one of the
reasons we have this pattern is this
mixed use case. Let's say you have a
timeline. We have a timeline in base
camp. We want to see like everything
that's happened you know so um at a
global level.
How do you do that and pageionate it if
all of your records are in different um
tables, right? Like you have to, you
know, select from the comments table and
the documents table and the uploads
table and the messages table, like
everything. It's it's super hard. But
with recordings, you're just querying
for recordings. You can say recordings
where recordable type is message,
document, comment. you're going to get
all the ones that are that type in one
query that you can pageionate with a
limit and an offset.
Super handy. And that query itself is
cheap because you've only asked for for
recordings rows that are not big. They
don't have any text columns. You know,
as you it's an n it's sort of n plus one
by design, right? But as you you iterate
over those then you go and fetch the
recordable records and to improve
performance you can preload them you
know get them all in one batch for each
type you know but the the the key thing
that you're able to do is work with just
recordings as if they're all the same.
So I'll give you another example unless
this is too much but another example
where this like uniformity matters. it's
copying, right? Or or or any actually
just think not just copying, but like
any generic process that you'd like to
do with a recording. We can export
recordings, right? We have an HTML
export feature in Base Camp. It's nice
to be able to write the exporter service
that doesn't care about its individual
types. All of these the the stuff that
would apply to exporting a recording is
common to any recordable type. you know
it knows how to write itself like it
knows it has to write something to to
you know some output and then it can
delegate the like what to do to its
recordable so we basically say like
recordable write out your export format
thank you means you don't need to change
the exporter when you add new recordable
types right each recordable type just
has to define the format that it exports
as same thing with copying and moving
you write a copier that works with
recording
That's it. It doesn't need to care about
what kinds of recordings it's copying.
It as it iterates over each recording
that it's copying, it sends that
recording sends a message to its
recordable that says I would like to
you've been requested a copy has been
requested of you, right? And it just
does its thing. So again, adding new
types, there's no penalty. You just add
them and the system can can work with
them. So any of those uh what we have in
base camp like a bunch of controllers um
these these are what you know field
requests that come in over HTTP. So
instead of having to have like if you
want to trash a document or archive a
document we don't need a separate
documents controller for this we have a
recordings controller that knows how to
trash things and archive things and
restore things. We just need one. It
works with any kind of recording. Same
thing that's how copying and moving
works too. We don't need a document
copier and a message copier and an
upload copier. We have a recording
copier, one controller. It takes the
recording that you want to copy and a
destination. And the copier itself and
the controller that orchestrates it
doesn't care what kinds of recordables
it's working with. It just works with
recordings. So I think that's one
another one of the reasons why Base Camp
3, that architecture has been so easy to
maintain and scale. When you decide
like, oh, we're going to add hill
charts. Oh, we're going to add, I don't
know, templates. Like, you don't have to
change or migrate the existing system.
It it uh it adapts well to change. You
just insert new types and the system
knows how to deal with them.
>> Are you at any point worried that the uh
the recording table is like massive,
billions of entries?
>> I mean, it is billions of entries. Um
not really because its size on disk is
small. Um, so it doesn't take much to
index it. So, but I mean, and if it did,
let's say it did get too big and we had
to shard it or break it into pieces, it
would be much easier to do because it's
an inherently lightweight table. It
really just has foreign key references
in it. That's it. You know, by contrast,
like the messages table can have like
many megabytes of text, you know, and
these are big on disk. And so the way
copying or making an index on disk works
is that you got to copy the table. Like
it's still an entity on disk that you
need to copy and the bigger it is, the
slower it is. So yeah, that there is a
danger that recordings gets too big. But
if it does, it's much easier to deal
with than if it was storing content.
>> Jeffrey, you've made it sound like this
recordables pattern like that we're
using is much simpler, like makes things
a lot easier. Are there any downsides?
Yeah, I think the probably the main
downside is familiarity and like the
with the way you would quote unquote
normally do this in Rails. Like normally
you would have a message class, a
document class and it would have
everything it knows about being a
message or a document would be encoded
in that class. I would I would call that
a rich class. It has all the
functionality in it. This is what the
active record pattern is about. It's
backed by a database table, but you
never interact with the database table
directly. You interact with your message
model. And so if there's specific things
that a message would do, you know, that
are not generic, you would write those
methods right inside the message class
or the comment class, you know, and with
the delegated type pattern, you kind of
want all of your types to be generic and
you don't want and you're not working
with them directly ever. like we never
look up just a message because a message
on its own is it's not linked to
anything. It's not useful, right? So in
order for a message to implement its
specific work, it often needs a
reference to a particular recording.
Like if a comment wants to know, you saw
in that one comment when I was showing
the code where it said, you know, like
comments can set their title based on
the parent that created them. Well, a
comment doesn't have a parent. A
recording can have a parent. So in order
for the comment to be able to do this,
right, it needs to be given a recording
to work with. Now it can ask for it's
that recording's parent and be like,
"Oh, okay, great. Now I can, you know,
change myself based on some context."
You got to think of the recordables as
being pretty dumb.
>> You know, they're just like in the case
of a message, it's literally just a
title and content. That's it. They have
no connection to the outside world. they
don't have any associations and nothing
points to them directly except for
recordings and events.
So I think some of that richness gets a
little bit lost like you don't do things
quite in the the Rails standard way you
know where you tend to think more
abstractly like how is this a generic
concern how if I want something to be
commentable do I make this work with any
kind of recording so it means that you
would have to add some facility to the
recording class that helps it stay
generic that's where more delegation
comes in so you would never just like
add a comment to a recording. You would
ask like is this recording commentable
the recording can't answer this itself
but it can ask it's recordable and pass
the message along. So it can say like
document what do you say when I ask are
you record are you commentable and
document says yes right but like
something like I don't know message
board the message board container itself
says no I'm not commentable you can't
put comments on me directly so in the
generic comments controller one of the
preconditions is is that the recording
has to be commentable now you can have
one generic controller that handles
comments and doesn't you can pass it any
kind of recording and it it just asks
that recording, are you commentable?
Like, do can I work with you? And if the
recording says yes, you're good. And if
it says no, it's an error.
>> Speaking of drawbacks, is that I mean, I
think I know the answer to this, but
it's that is that slower. Are you
trading like speed for clarity?
>> M I mean like development speed.
>> Yes,
>> maybe a little upfront like there's a
higher learning curve cost, right? Mhm.
>> So when we onboard new developers, you
know, it can be non-intuitive. It's
like, uh, I want to add some behavior to
the messages messages. I just opened the
message file and there's like nothing in
it,
>> you know, like where is all this
behavior? And we're like, oh yes, it
wouldn't go here because now you
>> Yeah, but it's it's it's like no, you
wouldn't put it here. You you you sort
of have to define it in a more abstract,
generic way. And then I think that
there's then it becomes a huge net
benefit. Like once you've learned the
pattern that now you you start to get
like, you know, because then you're
like, well, I want my message to be
copyable. It's like, oh, that already
works. I want it to be commentable. Oh,
just add a defaf commentable method and
return true. Done. All the commenting
works. I want it to be, you know,
exportable. Done. Just add an exportable
method. So you start to realize that
like oh what I've sacrificed in like you
know being able to modif like make
changes to message directly and add some
richness to like that like um I'll give
you an example messages can be
categorized in basecam you can make
categories it's useful but it's not
really useful for other types maybe
documents but we don't have that feature
enabled um so I think in a standard
Rails app you would add your you know
you would say that a message belongs to
a category and cate categories have many
messages. But in the delegated type
recordable pattern, you've got to make
it so all recordings have the potential
to be categorizable,
right? And only message opts opts in. So
that that cost is there upfront, but
then you know a month later when
someone's like, "Hey, can we have
comments on or categories on documents?"
It's like, "Yes, that's easy. No
problem. And so like we've gotten a ton
of leverage out of that. You know, it
allows you to build like you know a lot
of things that should be hard just are
not hard. They come down to a matter of
configuration.
You have this the system behaves in a
uniform way. And where I think this
works best because this won't work in
all application domains and we don't use
a delegated type for every kind of model
but in base camp where you have
basically you know the same chunks of
content like you would have in a content
management system or like a wiki or like
something like notion you know it what
these chunks of content have in common
is the operations you can perform on
them and with them. And so like their
ability to just participate in that
system just by being defined is like
incredible, you know, like we we added
the uh the card table like our our our
conbon board, you know, system we call
the card table and it was like super
easy to do because we're just like all
right, we have a board. It's got
children. It's got like you you know
like you can watch a column. Well,
that's just a subscription, you know. So
we'll make those you know card columns
are a kind of recording their children
are the cards themselves each of the
cards can have comments you know that
the column itself can be watched the
board itself can also be watched you're
sort of mixing and matching behavior
that already exists and then when it's
like well how would I move a column to
another a card to another column it's
just a move operation all recordings are
movable they can move to different
containers so that just works you know
like how do I get a reminder about a you
know a a a due date I've given myself on
the card like oh oh that just works
because all recordings are remindable
just you know and so you're like you can
build entirely new features that should
take months in like a week two weeks I
mean excluding the design but like the
the the the software modeling part and
it's all uniform so once you've figured
out how this works you understand the
whole system it doesn't scale up with
the number of types, right? Like it
behaves the same whether you have one
kind of recordable or like 200.
>> It kind of sounds like Jeeoff, I'm
imagining as you're describing this like
a whole bunch of Legos or puzzle pieces
that are just being redone in a
different way. Like you're taking
elements that you guys already have and
>> yeah,
>> reconfiguring them to make a new
feature.
>> Yeah. And if you think Legos in
particular,
>> grossly simplifying that,
>> but Legos are a good example. If the
Legos didn't fit together, like if they
didn't have the same like hole and bump
pattern, it wouldn't work, right? Like
what you get is being able to say like,
"Okay, here's all the Legos and they're
all interchangeable. Like every Lego
works with every other Lego." And like
that's why it works, you know? So there
there were all these things that
motivated the pattern and what I don't
think we could have anticipated was how
well it would have it worked out like in
the long term, right? from being able to
query efficiently to to query across
types with pageionation to be able to
copy and move things really efficiently
because we're not having to recreate
like the message content every time. You
know, if a message gets copied 100
times, there's still only one message
recordable. That's it. You know, whereas
in earlier versions of Base Camp, we
would have 100 different rows that each
had a copy of that content.
So things like this adds up. Like
whenever you start a new base camp
account, you get like a uh a demo
project. So like thousands and thousands
of base camp accounts that all have the
same starting content and we would need
thousands and thousands tens of
thousands of rows to represent this. And
so you get a really really big database
is base camp is a the majestic monolith.
It's it's we don't use microservices.
It's one app with one big database. And
it it there's you know a lot of
efficiency like in terms of workflow
that you get from just having one
database. And this is one of the
patterns this this delegated immutable
types in particular make that possible.
You know stay in the majestic monolith
as long as you can. We've been running
this architecture for 10 years. you
know, like other versions of Base Camp
didn't make it quite that long before we
created a new version and then therefore
like they're still growing, but it
really reduced the rate that the content
is growing in those systems. But Base
Camp has just been going up and up and
up for over 10 years, version three. So,
this architecture scales really well.
We're totally confident to build Base
Camp 5 on it. Um, it's just a little bit
different maybe than what you're used
to. So once you you know and and I don't
know how widely used it is because
because of that. So David is going to do
you know a a talk on and like a sort of
like a a code demonstration of like the
mechanics like but like it's that's
useful but like we sort of already have
that too in documentation and still
people miss the big picture. So I'm
hoping that that's what I I'm able to
convey here is like what why would you
do this? It's like why not just have
messages and documents and separate
records like the universe intended and
like that's why I mean it is fine for a
lot of purposes there there is a cost to
this level of abstraction but it's not
as great as you might think and you it
pays dividends once you've made the
investment.
>> I mean I'm fascinated by this.
>> Oh I agree. I'm trying I've been trying
to think.
>> Well, Fo, you work on the mobile team
and like think about the API like we're
able to expose a single recordings JSON
API.
>> Pretty great. Like
>> you can just ask for recordings and you
can provide filters like between this
time and that time you're going to get
all different types. But this is really
easy to implement, right? And you can do
things like on your your uh
>> native code can do things and not like
it means that things just work. So we
add a new type and we don't need to
issue a new uh create a new build of the
mobile apps. It's just it's going to get
a new kind of recording and it can deal
with it in a generic way. It knows that
all recordings have titles. All
recordings might have a position. All
recordings can be archived or active or
trashed. like it's not like oh
everything breaks because we introduced
a new type you know and and that's one
of the other ways because we also are a
super small team you know like I mean
super small at times there's only a
handful of people working on any of this
stuff you know and
you would need way more people if if you
had to coordinate these sorts of changes
it means that like we just deploy base
camp whenever and we're confident that
nothing is going to break even as we add
new things not not you can't do for like
everything. But as far as recordings go,
which is the bread and butter of Base
Camp, these different kinds of content,
these content blocks, you know, that are
fundamentally contentoriented, all
behave in the same way. And and it means
that we ship new stuff and we don't have
to wake Fernando up at night or anybody
on his team to say you need to like do a
release because we busted something.
That's the kind of efficiency I think
you get and you know and that's the
kinds of things we're looking for so
that we can stay a small team
>> if someone is like yes this is a better
way to work or this is a better way to
do this programming with the delegated
types all of this is it something that
you can incorporate into something
you're already doing or do you have to
start from scratch
>> you can incorporate it into what you're
doing it is a little hard though it it's
definitely better to start from scratch
the migration path path would look like.
Um it would be a little bit complicated.
You would you would introduce your your
main table, we'll call it recordings,
that delegates its types and you would
either create new
um types, you know, so if you already
had comments, you would need to name it
something else like recordable comments
and migrate your content into that.
create recordings as you go because the
way you create a recording is you create
a recording record and you pass it a new
recordable and then when we save the
recording that's when we update the
reference and persist the recordable. So
you would sort of do that process and
move your content into it. So we've done
this before when we worked on the hey
calendar. The hey calendar also uses the
delegated type pattern for all of its
calendary things. Think of all the
things that can appear on a calendar
day.
>> You know you got the event itself. You
might want to circle the event. You can
have a countdown. You can
>> You might want to name it.
>> Yeah. Name it. It has a title, right?
>> You can add a picture.
>> Yes. All of these things are implemented
as like a calendar is the bucket and the
bucket has recordings and the recordings
are things that are eventlike. Now, I
talked about how the recordings table,
the main table stores like the metadata,
the stuff that all of the types have in
common. So in an application like hey
calendar
they have everything that can appear on
a calendar has to have a starts at and
an ends at time stamp.
>> You can't put it on a calendar unless it
has knowledge of when it exists.
>> Right?
>> So in that case starts at and ends at
aren't delegated to like an event type.
They're on the recordings table. That
means we can query for any kind of thing
that might have be might be on the
calendar in any moment in time from one
place. That's what allows us to like in
one query fetch all the things that we
need to display on a given day or in a
given m week or month. So part of it is
is it's that you you find the stuff that
never changes the things that all of the
types would need and that becomes you
you know your main class your main table
and then that create that and and the
the you know you've got it when you can
just query that one table to get
everything you need. Our first iteration
of hey had us like going through the
different tables. So we had to like
query for events and we had to query
like oh we're going to add you know
other things to the calendar like I
forget like even just being able to
circle a certain day or something and
they were all slightly different
>> and there's like tasks sometimes this
week task.
>> That's another great example and and so
we did the you know and and then we had
to migrate into that. This was still
while we were developing but we didn't
do it by deleting everything like we
were able to transition to it. But
that's a great question. it it is the
kind of pattern you want to start with.
The single table inheritance pattern and
the polymorphic pattern are similar.
Yes, you can migrate into them, but it
it's it's a pain. It's better to
identify upfront that this is something
you might want to use. And similarly,
you could go the other way. You could
start with a delegated type and turn
these all into concrete types that have
their own tables. You know, you would
iterate over the recordings. For each
recording, you would create a new
record, you know, take its recordable
content, take the recording metadata,
stick them together, and insert that in
a new table. So, there is migration
paths to and from, but you're right. You
want to you want to start with something
like this. Jeff, I'm skeptical.
I have to I have to say like I work at
at 37 Signals. I work with base camp all
the time. It is very fast.
Why is this not more popular? Is it like
obscurity? Is it like what? Because like
come on. Like we've been talking about
this for like however long the episode
has been going on and it's like I keep
trying to I've been thinking about
poking holes at it and there's like
>> Yeah. I don't I don't know. I think it's
just familiarity, which is why I'm glad
we're, you know, we're doing this and
sort of educating people because I think
it would be a lot more used if people
understood its strengths. Like the Rails
documentation on it is good, but it's
kind of tur. It's kind of like
describes, you know, like a shallow
version of the benefits, but like you
know, you talked about fast speed.
That's another great example. Caching,
we don't cash at the recordable level.
>> Oh my, that's right. Cash at the
recording level means that like the way
caching works for any kind of content
type is identical across content types
across recordable types. We cash on the
recording. When you want to expire the
cache, you touch the recording. In the
tree pattern, if the tree needs to touch
its children, it can, but it's more
common for a child to touch up its tree.
But then we have like you know we call
it the Russian doll caching pattern
where it doesn't m like you can
invalidate you know a child way down the
tree and not need to invalidate the
parent. You know the parent can still
render itself and then when it gets to
this child it's like oh this part you
know I need to change and so but yeah
you don't get uh to use the same caching
scheme for everything
you know when you don't have a uniform
thing like a recording. So what you'll
see in our views is like cache recording
do end like everything is wrapped in a
cache block keyed only on the recording.
>> Yeah.
>> So the you get to share a ton of stuff
in terms of the it's not just the I've
been mostly talking about the domain
model but this also this uh cascades to
the controllers and the views right it's
it's all the same. It's recordings all
the way down. You mentioned you
mentioned something about Rails like is
this pattern like in Rails somehow or
part of Rails?
>> It's part of Rails. So it's it started
life in Base Camp as like you know uh
just in our application code and then uh
once we realized how good it was David
packaged it up and you know wrote
documentation for it and tests and
extracted it to Rails. That's another
reason we like know it works. It's not,
it sounds very abstract, but it's not
ivory tower sort of like theory thing
like this is what we're actually using
and we've proven it out over like a
decade. So, it really really works, you
know, and it's replaced our use of of
single table inheritance and even
polymorphic relationships. We almost
don't like when you're going to reach
for one of those, you should give
delegated type a look and be like, could
I do the same thing with the delegated
type? because you get the same sort of
um sharing, but I think that it it's
sort of inverted, right? It's it's it's
particularly an inversion of the
polymorphic type. In a polymorphic
pattern, you have a a record that can
belong to any kind of record,
right? And in the delegated type
pattern, it's the other way. It's like,
so it's not your child record that can
belong to any kind of thing. It's the
parent record that can have any kind of
thing.
But it means you get to work with those
parents. You know, you're starting at
the top because like if you think about
something like a comment can have any
kind of commentable. When are you ever
working from the comment? When do when
do you want to start with the comments
table and find all the things? No, it's
at the wrong end of the relationship.
You want to start at the top, you know,
or that's that's why the tree pattern
works really well, too. So, I think that
um yeah, I I I think that it it it just
needs more people if once they try it
would realize this is really cool and
this is uh this can change a lot.
>> Okay, Jeeoff, I have a question for you.
So, you're clearly an expert at all this
recordings, recordables, all of the
things. What would you say if you like
had to give someone advice like someone
who is using this like what are do you
think are like some of the biggest
mistakes people have?
I know I didn't prep you for that
question.
>> No, it's okay. I I don't know if there's
any mistakes so much as like maybe the
mistake is like not taking it far
enough. You know what I mean? Like you
you can model like you know all the
things that you have in common in this
way like and you can go pretty far with
it. We did um like hill charts in base
camp like how do you model those as
recordings and recordables? But there's
a way, you know, and you need other
patterns, you know, or how do you take
like you want document history or event
history? The events stream is another
thing. Not only do we want to show you
events, but we want the events that
we're listing to be like accurate. So
you have a timeline and it's like
Kimberly saved a new document called
this. Well, then you went and renamed
it. But when you created it, it had the
original name. And so when I'm scrolling
back, you know, I'm like Kimberly didn't
name this, you know, new features, you
know, it says new features March, but
I'm reading this, you know, I'm scrolled
back to February.
That doesn't make sense. You know, she
have a time machine. No, you you want
like sort of accurate history, and
that's another way to get it is with
this. So I think it's it's combining the
delegate pattern the dele delegate type
pattern with other patterns and they
really can build off of each other. So
once you have this concept of like the
type doesn't matter you can do
interesting things with the type you
know like don't change them you know
keep a log of them right so that you can
easily move between them move pointers
around it gives you ideas for how you
could copy and move things efficiently.
Um, so I think that it's that people
don't realize where it's not that they
use it wrong. It's that they don't
realize how in how many places it's
actually applicable because it's not
nearly as rigid as STI or polymorphism.
It's it's super super flexible.
>> Were you a part of like the the or was
this like David's invention? It was
David. It was a big part of Dave. David
like came up with the original idea and
it was out of the frustration of like
how expensive and slow it had gotten to
copy things in Base Camp 2 and how every
time you introduced a new thing you also
had to introduce changes to the copier
and like so yeah David had the the first
idea for this typical David thing like
how can I invent a new you know a brand
new pattern that nobody is using that's
why I think like it originated here and
it's sort of like it has a lot in common
with STI but it's flipped on its head
and and I think also a thing that only
David can do is that it was unproven
when he introduced it. It was like this
might work. You know, it's harder to get
away with the speculative let's give it
a shot unless you're David but it's
David and he can just do that. And then
it was like let's see how this works
because at the time we hadn't been
designing Base Camp like that. We had
our it was very base camp 2 like and uh
you know and then we just from there it
became you know a shared thing we could
iterate on and like it it we didn't
extract it for several years after it
was in use maybe a year or two years uh
after it was in use in base camp before
it like proved itself to be like a
viable pattern. It went through a bunch
of iterations, but yeah, the kernel of
that idea that you have one row of one
table that holds, you know, most of the
information about the records and but
none of the specifics came from David
motivated by copying efficiency and the
need to pageionate, the need to like
have have a timeline of of you know
different types that we could pageionate
with one query because the other way to
do something like that is to like sort
of create a table of copies, you know,
that you insert, you know, different
records in the table that you're going
to pageionate. But now you have a
copying system. And we do have a version
of that in Base Camp, but it's a
performance optimization. It's not like
the main way that we query for
recordings. You know, think of it like
caching. We can relay events into
another table so that we can like very
efficiently be like, here's all the
events that apply to just this person
because everybody can see different
things in Base Camp, right? My timeline
doesn't look exactly like your timeline
because we're on different projects.
>> No, I can I could see how that would be
a nightmare to implement if you had like
different types. Like I I can I can
imagine it in my head like a PM going
like, "Okay, I want you to give me like
a timeline of things that are happening
and the programmer is going like wof
that's going to be rough."
>> And you pay that cost every time you add
a new thing.
>> Yeah. you know. Yeah. And and even when
we're doing work in beta, you know, like
that's a one time. So we do work in
beta, we'll modify the database, we'll
add new types, and production needs to
know how to deal with these new types.
And in most cases, it just can because
we've programmed it in a way that like
if they don't know how to deal with a
particular recordable, it just deals
with it in a generic way. It displays
the generic icon. It asks for things
that it knows that all recordables have
a title, you know, possibly content, uh,
subscribers, you know, and and so like
nothing breaks.
>> Nothing breaks.
>> Yeah.
>> And so that was another key element of
the design, like how can we have
something that's flexible? What we found
with Base Camp 2 is that yeah, it works,
but it's slow and every time, you know,
we're like, hey, we want to add a new
thing, we're like, that's expensive.
That's going to be a pain in the ass.
How do you make it not a pain in the
ass? And I think good patterns emerge
when like that's your criteria. You
know, you're we come up with something
to make it easier. What would make this
easier? You know, and then so you find
the specific problems we had and then
correct for those. And and David is
basically an expert at that.
>> And he hates when things break.
>> Yeah. And he hates friction, right? Like
when when the common thing is hard, the
common thing should be easy. The common
thing we do is introduce new features,
new kinds of content. The common thing
we do is you know and with those content
that content we we need it to work on
our mobile apps with no extra effort
without having to hire new mobile
developers. You know this is why we have
turbo hotwired and why we have hotwire
native native. You know why we have
rails like make these super common
things easy. The uncommon things just
need to be possible. you don't do them
that often. It's okay to have friction
there. Look at deploying apps, right?
Nobody, everyone was deploying apps with
Docker before using Docker in production
before we were, but David looks at it
and is like, "This is a pain. Why is it
like this?" And so he invents Kamal, you
know, like it it's that response. He has
a low tolerance for friction on the
critical path, you know, and I think
people just sort of um they they they
become oblivious to that friction.
They're just like they sort of ramp up
slowly with it and they're like this is
just the way it is. David never accepts
that this is just the way it is. He's
got a real eye for like this could be
different and and he's not just going to
complain about it. He'll do something,
you know, he'll disappear for a week or
two and then be like here I fixed it.
You know, it's great.
>> Jeeoff, you mentioned some
documentation, some Rails documentation
over delegated types. We'll link to that
in the like notes for this episode. Are
there any other places people should go
for information about all of this?
>> I mean, right now there's not a ton of
places. There are a few people who have
written articles, you know, that are
that are pretty good and they're sort of
the exploratory kind of article. They're
like, hey, you know, haven't found a lot
of documentation about this cool feature
of Rails. And so, they've written about
it. So that's really good. The Rails
documentation, well TUR is also very
good. Um, and I think that what we're
doing right now is is adding to the
growing body of documentation on this
pattern and what David's going to do is
is also going to help that. But yeah, if
I can find any, I I'll I'll send you the
links and then we can add that to the
show notes because yeah, I think that's,
you know, the main thing we're trying to
correct by doing, you know, an episode
like this is to share the benefits of
this under represented pattern.
>> Awesome. Well, with that, we're going to
wrap it up. This has been a production
of Recordables by the 37 Signals team.
To hear more from our technical team
about their behind-the-scenes work,
visit our developers blog at
dev.signals.com. 7s signals.com.